good evening I'm Judy Woodruff
Gwen
Ifill is away on the NewsHour
tonight
this is not just about property
damage
this is about the people's roots
President Obama visits the
rabbit
communities of Louisiana after
historic
flooding left 13 dead and
thousands of
homes destroyed also had this
tuesday
uncovering a surprisingly common
classroom practice why some US
schools
are still using corporal
punishment to
discipline unruly students and
scientists in Iceland make a
breakthrough discovery turning
carbon
dioxide into rock in an effort
to fight
climate change we saw an
opportunity
here to test the very
interesting
technology which we did and we
even
proved that works faster than we
thought
it would all that and more on
tonight's
PBS Newshour
yeah
the president toured flood
damage in
Louisiana today after historic
storms
more than a week ago inundated
parishes and left 13 people dead
president obama surveyed the
damage from
streets that just a few days ago
were
underwater it is one sign of a
gradual
return to normal but stacked up
on the
side of the street where the
remnants of
just how bad and historic the
floods had
been a people's lives have been
upended
by this flood this is not just
about
property damage this is about
people's
roots the president was in east
baton
rouge to meet with officials
first
responders and just some of the
thousands who were flooded out
of their
homes more than 115,000 people
have
signed up for federal disaster
assistance so far today mr.
Obama
pledged more help is coming
what i want the people Louisiana
know is
that you're not alone on this
even after
the TV cameras leave the whole
country
is going to continue to support
you and
help you until we get folks back
in
their homes and lives are
rebuilt
he said the federal government
has
already allocated a hundred and
twenty
seven million dollars for flood
victims
the flooding was the worst
disaster in
the US since superstorm sandy
hit the
East Coast in two thousand
twelve days
of torrential rain don't more
than
two-and-a-half feet of water in
some
parts now more than a week later
the
water is receding but in its
wake it is
estimated that more than 100,000
homes
were damaged or destroyed
heartbreaking
you know not just for me but to
see it
looks like a bomb went off a car
guys
should up your life is this
route
officials in east baton rouge
say it
could take up to three months
just to
clear debris from the streets
7,000
people are still living in
temporary
shelters
and some political criticism
continued
over the timing of the
president's visit
he had been on vacation on
martha's
vineyard in Massachusetts
republican
presidential nominee Donald
Trump
tweeted today President Obama
should
have gone to Louisiana days ago
instead
of golfing too little too late
trunk along with running mate
mike pence
toward the flood zone last
Friday
earlier Louisiana's governor
John bel
Edwards a Democrat and ask mr.
Obama to
delay a visit to avoid tying up
local
authorities today he welcomed
the
president the governor had said
after
Trump's visit that it was
helpful and
attracting national attention
we'll have more on the flood
aftermath
right after the news summary in
the days
other news an American soldier
died in
afghanistan after his patrol
trigger a
roadside bomb another US service
member
and six afghan soldiers were
wounded the
explosion occurred in Lashkar
Gah the
capital Helmand province
fighting has
intensified their in recent
weeks now
that the Taliban has reclaimed
about
eighty percent of the province
it is the
first US combat death in that
country
since January there are
staggering new
numbers on the flow of
unaccompanied
children making the risky
journey to the
u.s. from Central America a new
report
from the United Nations
Children's
agency unicef estimates about
26,000
unattended children were
apprehended at
the US border between january
and june
of this year most fled from El
Salvador
Guatemala and Honduras to escape
brutal
gang violence and poverty five
new
homegrown Zika cases were
confirmed in
florida today they include the
first one
on florida's gulf coast in
pinellas
county near tampa nearly 300
miles away
from the other infections owns
in miami
florida surgeongeneral conceded
they
still don't know precisely where
that
individual contracted the virus
since
they had not traveled
internationally
the Department of Health here
under
dr. Cho and his team will speak
with
that person get a good history
there
already testing family members
will be
looking at co-workers as well to
better
understand where transmission
may have
occurred
state officials stopped short of
labeling it a new area of active
local
transmission there are new
revelations
today about Hillary Clinton's
activities
at the State Department and
associated
press review found more than
half of the
non government figures who met
with her
while she was Secretary gave
money to
the Clinton Foundation combine
those
people contributed as much as
150 six
million dollars to her family
charity
the Nigerian military today said
that it
believes airstrikes have killed
a number
of top Boko Haram militants
including
the group's leader Abubakar
Shekau but
there was no independent
confirmation
and then and his death has been
falsely
reported at least three other
times the
announcement came as Secretary
of State
John Kerry arrived in abuja for
talks
with nigeria's president on
strategies
to defeat Boko Haram your
country has
taken back most of the territory
that
the terrorists have once
captured but we
also know that beating Boko
Haram on the
battlefield is only the
beginning of
what we need to do
Boko Haram which has pledged its
allegiance to the Islamic state
has
killed thousands of people and
abducted
some 300 schoolgirls 218 of them
are
still missing
Turkey has formally requested
the
extradition of us-based cleric
Petula
guülen State Department spokesman
said
the extradition request was
unrelated to
last month's attempted coup in
Turkey
which the Turkish government has
blamed
on guülen and his followers who
land
lives in self-imposed exile in
Pennsylvania traffic deaths
across the
US are on the rise the national
safety
council reported more than
19,000 people
have died on the roads from
january
through june
this year that is up nine
percent over
the same period last year and up
eighteen percent from two years
ago it
attributed the rise to more
people
traveling on the nation's roads
due to a
stronger economy and lower gas
prices
new estimates out today are
forecasting
this year's budget deficit will
increase
after years of declines the
congressional budget office
projects
that it will grow by one-third
to 590
billion dollars due to
lower-than-expected tax revenues
on wall
street stocks closed higher led
by gains
in the technology sector the dow
jones
industrial average was up nearly
points to close at 18,000 547
the nasdaq
rose 15 and the S&P 500 added
for still
to come on the NewsHour what's
working
and what's not in Louisiana's
flood
recovery efforts i sit down with
Green
Party presidential candidate
jill stein
the prevalence of corporal
punishment in
schools and much more
now the aftermath and long road
back
from the floods in Louisiana
President
Obama promised to sustain
national
effort to rebuilding southern
Louisiana
during his visit today one that
he said
would last long after the
cameras leave
one of the worst-hit areas was
livingston parish where seventy
percent
of the home suffered damage from
the
worst floods in decades
leighton tricks as the president
of that
parish and I spoke with him by
skype a
short time ago mr. Layton Rick's
thank
you very much for talking with
us
first of all tell us where is
livingston
parish in the baton rouge area
and just
what shape is it in right now
listen
Paris is just east of the river
right
across from batrooms we are
server of
Baton Rouge about a hundred
forty-one
thousand people right now we're
not in
real good shape if you drove
across a
landscape you would see all the
water
lines but uh but but that's
where we're
located
we also burn that bridge when
you say
you're not in good shape spell
that out
for us what sort of damage there
yeah well we have roughly 60,000
plus
structures that were affected
damaged in
some way by the flood that we
just went
through the war has now receded
but
we're still dealing with the
aftermath
and have begun recovery process
but if
you grow thru our parents right
now you
would see a lot of people's
belongings
are beginning to palate
alongside the
road so that we can start
picking it up
and that's just the aftermath of
the
devastation that we're looking
at we
drive across from this blood
event that
we just went through
do you have any idea at this
point how
much it's going to cost to bring
everything back you know I don't
they're
still assessing their still
riding
around three whores around
actually
assessing and mapping out as its
FEMA so
I really do not know just argue
been
crossing mall alone other
developers
tell me that he thinks that
somewhere
around 30 million dollar hit the
malls
roughly a year and a half two
years old
store still only we're moving
into the
second phase actually the mall
open
that's just one mall so we we've
got
substantial damage in there
spares what are you how would
you
describe what the main
challenges are
now facing the people around you
what what are you what are you
facing
well I think now we made it
through the
rescue phase we moved into the
recovery
phase now the the hardest part
is going
to be trying to get people some
help to
get him back in their homes
which were
severely damaged in one way or
another
by the flood it could be
anywhere from 2
inches to 8 9 10 feet in some
areas so
that the real problem is and we
also
have schools that were damaged
so the
real problem challenging it is
to try to
get these people back to their
homes
quick with it we can so that the
kids
can get back into the schools
once they
open so there's some sort of
normalcy
there so we're hoping to have
you know
what certainly will be assessed
and
going to do that anyway we can
but
that's going to be a long
drawn-out slow
process because most people that
were
severely affected by the flood
also lost
their vehicles so we've got to
get
vehicles commercials are down
there not
up and running they're not
working yet
so they don't have a job to go
to so
we've got we've got quite a mess
right
now
so what sort of outside help do
you need
from the federal government or
anybody
else and do you think you're
getting it
well you know FEMA has really
stepped up
to this point on man that was
administrator Craig Fugate last
week
with like governor Edwards and
his staff
by the governor's office it was
a very
good meeting how they assured us
of any
asset that we need to ask for it
would
happen and so far it has about
what i
really need right now which
would be
really great for our parish and
surrounding prayer shoes is for
the
president to declare this a 9010
payback
for FEMA vs 2575 that would help
us in
government all across the state
tremendously with an enormous
impact
this storm has had he can do
that and i
hope you will will will do that
very
soon because what that means is
the past
willow back ten percent purchase
the
25-percent I quite frankly don't
know
where the 10-percent going to
come from
but I know twenty-five percent
right now
so it's just gonna be astronaut
oh well
as we reported the president was
there
in
baton rouge today there's also
been some
political criticism that you can
get
there sooner
how do you see that we know
Donald Trump
was there last Friday what it
one of
these visits mean for the area
and did
the did the politicians get
there as
soon as you thought they should
have you
know it in in in in my as far as
I'm
concerned yes I didn't need him
to come
in the middle of this thing at
the heat
of the battle last week what I
needed to
do that was to declare a state
of
emergency
he did that our fingers wrapped
up
really fast under government and
words
alone with as an administrator
Craig
Fugate they were signing off on
decorations happens get the
assets that
we needed at that time and also
initially that's what i needed
out of
the federal government
I feel like we got that the
argument
about whether or not he should
have come
last week quite frankly my
opinion had
he come in the middle of this
thing last
week we would've been pulling
our first
responders away from where they
needed
to be the assets that we used to
rescue
people and then to handle the
shelter's
trying to make sure he was safe
while he
came into our parish of so I
felt like
he was ok not coming last week I
do
think he should've made a couple
of
phone calls to us that would've
been
nice to at least hurt from him
however its fourth really
getting things
done for me that i needed i feel
like he
did that all the governor's
office has
been extremely extremely helpful
looks
and that's made a big difference
now him
coming this week today I'm
disappointed
that he didn't call
I'm disappointed that he didn't
come
over into our parents it's our
parish
was the one that was most
severely hit
but again however as far as him
directing FEMA I think they're
doing all
they can do for us at this point
but
this is a long drawn-out
recovery
process i'm going to need FEMA
for a
long time to come to help make
sure that
we're going to be able to get
this done
for our people and that then the
parents
will be made whole or as much so
as we
can I in the aftermath of this
late in
Rick's who is the president of
livingston parish in Louisiana
we thank
you very much and we certainly
wish you
the very best with the recovery
that's
that's coming in the weeks and
months to
come
thank you ma'am I appreciate you
now to the 2016 presidential
campaign
the vast amount of attention in
this
election year by far has gone to
the two
main party nominees for
president
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump
but
there are a few third-party
candidates
competing as well tonight we
hear from
the woman who is the nominee of
the
Green Party for the second
election in a
row
she is dr. jill stein and I
spoke with
her a short time ago dr. jill
stein
welcome to the NewsHour great to
be with
you to tea so let me just start
by
asking you what is the main
difference
between what you and the Green
Party
offer voters and from what say
Hillary
Clinton and Bernie Sanders have
offered
so maybe the main difference is
that i'm
the one candidate in the race
that is
not corrupted by lobbyists money
by
corporate money or by super PAC
so on
the one candidate that can
really stand
up for what it is that American
people
are really clamoring for and
that means
jobs and an emergency jobs
program we
call for the creation of 20
million jobs
to solve the emergency of
climate change
and we call for one hundred
percent
clean renewable energy by 2030
we call
for canceling student debt and
you know
the Hillary and and now Bernie
talked
about free public higher
education going
forward but not dealing with his
burden
of debt which has really locked
a
generation into kind of a
hopeless
future right now and we also
call for
free public higher and I feel
free
public higher education right
and for
health care is a human right and
i think
we differ on foreign policy i
mean let
me just stop you there with with
domestic policy because you
didn't get
jobs program for anyone who
doesn't get
one in the private sector the
government
should provide it for giving
student
loans you talk about free
childcare free
healthcare medicare-for-all how
much is
all that going to cost how do
you pay
for it so fortunately most of it
pays
for itself
so for example providing jobs to
transform our economy
to the green energy economy of
the
future
it actually gets rid of what's
causing
200,000 premature deaths a year
that is
through fossil fuels it turns
out we get
so much healthier when we
convert to a
green energy economy that our
health
savings alone are enough to pay
for the
cost of the energy transition so
it
wouldn't require say a tax hike
maybe
even it attacks hike for those
in the
middle class so the other piece
of this
is that moving to 100% renewable
energy
means we no longer need and can
no
longer justify wars for oil
which mind
you have cost us six trillion
dollars
since 2001 when you include the
cost of
caring for our wounded soldiers
awards for that's right words
for oil
because we've been fighting
these regime
change wars which are not making
us
safer in fact arguably we are
much less
safe with each new war on terror
we actually have created a new
wave of
even more difficult terror so we
call
for actually a weapons and parco
and
freezing the funding of our
allies who
are sponsoring terrorist
enterprises
around the world according to
Hillary
Clinton's own leaked emails are
from the
secretary's office so we cutting
our
military budget which is one
thing we
can do when we are 100-percent
renewables and heading for it
enables us
to bring hundreds of billions of
dollars
back into true security here in
our own
economy
well I want to ask you about the
military as well because you
would cut
you said the military budget in
half you
would close down many if not all
overseas US bases you said you
would cut
aid to us important US allies
like
Israel like Egypt and Saudi
Arabia so do
you see the United States
pulling back
and not really playing a global
role
actually I see us playing more
of a
global role and more impactful
global
role because we would have a
consistent
policy it's not about
specifically
defunding Israel or Saudi Arabia
or
Egypt it's about having a nice
and handed policy that says that
we as
the united states with all due
humility
are asking our allies to turn
over a new
page where our foreign policy is
based
on international law and human
rights
and that we will not sponsor the
governments of countries or
their
militaries where they are
systematically
and more importantly violating
human
rights and international law
very
quickly if Russia say went into
Eastern
Europe with the u.s. respond if
you were
president um you know the laws
of war
right now say that we can
respond when
our country is threatened that
is you
know what international law says
so we
would need to establish that
there is
actually imminent danger to the
United
States I don't North Korea going
into
South Korea the same thing if
that's not
imminent danger to the united
states in
the US would necessary well what
we
would be doing is trying to
preempt
these conflicts before they
occur
through a vigorous policy of
engagement
so we would be sitting down to
negotiate
to actually reduce conflict on
the
Korean Peninsula right now
because
there's never really been a
ceasefire or
there's been a cease-fire but
there
hasn't been a formalization of
the war
on the Korean Peninsula that's
right
just i also want to ask you
about as you
know your campaign is drawn
parallels
with ralph nader in two thousand
virgins
early everybody has researched
that
election say that Ralph Nader
who got
over what 97,000 votes in the
state of
Florida cost al gore the state
Al Gore
lost the state by 537 votes so
my
question is if this race gets
close
why isn't it a safe to assume
that
you're prepared to see Hillary
Clinton
lose to Donald Trump because
most of
your vote should count assault
well you know I think it remains
to be
seen where our votes would come
from
remember the majority of Donald
Trump
supporters don't actually
support him
they're mainly motivated by not
liking
Hillary Clinton so how about we
give
those dissatisfied Clinton you
know
opponents someone else that they
can
vote for in fact many of Bernie
Sanders
supporters let me put this
another way
many Trump supporters used to be
Sanders
supporters and when Sanders was
wiped
out they moved over to trump so
we're
trying to bring in you know the
majority
of Americans were in a very
different
different moment now
historically then
we were in two thousand because
the
majority of American voters have
rejected both Hillary Clinton
and Donald
Trump they're the most disliked
an
untrusted candidates for
president in
our history and the American
people are
clamoring for another choice i
think and
before we try to shut down the
discussion it's really important
you
know to let that discussion go
forward
and let people see you know I
think in
America just ask you that you
you've
made it clear you think both
Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump would
be
terrible presidents but the
country so
are you saying you think
literally that
Hillary Clinton is every bit as
bad for
the country as Donald trunk i
went there
today there are no differences
but the
differences are not enough to
save your
job
we feel that in this election
we're not
just deciding what kind of a
world we're
going to have that whether we're
going
to have a world are not going
forward
and knowing that the majority of
Americans is unhappy with these
two
party choices
this is the time for us to open
up so
we're pushing for opening up the
debates
and then let's see how the chips
fall
dr. jill stein the Green Party
we thank
you thank you Judy and you can
watch our
extended facebook live interview
with
dr. Stein online she answers
your
questions on Syria vaccines and
the
black lives matter movement that
is on
our facebook page at
facebook.com slash
Newshour
stay with us coming up on the
NewsHour
concerns over WikiLeaks massive
release
of personal information
scientists fight
climate change by turning carbon
dioxide
into stone and an author's take
on
reshaping both girls and boys
expectations of sex but first a
new
investigation examines the use
of
corporal or physical punishment
in
public schools and that is the
focus of
our weekly education segment
making the
grade
the practice is far less common
than it
used to be but a report in the
journal
education week finds it is still
utilized in 21 states and more
than
100,000 children were physically
punished in one recent year
proponents say it can be an
effective
way to motivate children to
behave but
much research suggests otherwise
we begin with a story of a
nineteen-year-old in Mississippi
Trey
Clayton was paddled repeatedly
in high
school because of discipline
problems
the piece was produced by our
partners
at education week Mississippi
leads the
nation in the percentage of
schools that
use corporal punishment name is
Trey
Clayton i'm 19 now my paddle and
took
place in defense has school 8th
grade
school is fun got along with
everybody
I was a good student I didn't do
my
schoolwork and do my homework
but no I
did get my test i guess i was
happy said
school was playing football a
lot of
years in school get in trouble
they
caught with cigarette arguing
people
trying to fight people and stuff
mouth
lot
didn't really like it too old to
do but
if I had the choice to get
paddling I
usually choose palin just get
out with
they didn't want to spend time
and in
school suspension is or because
my
parents always told me you know
don't ever choose suspension you
know
could you don't need you can't
miss
school going to miss school just
like
any other day I'm in trouble my
buddy's
in trouble so we're talking
library and
start no telling us to hush i
just had
something smart to say back and
but i
know i was going to get pattern
shows
palette so I get three licks it
to
escort me in class we walk in
his office
I want to walk around them and
just woke
up on the floor I felt something
in my
mouth and I start now hold my
hand out
to see what is start spitting
out teeth
like shards of my teeth
I've been a bit through both
sides of
the tongue I've got one tre
Mason and my
daughter and mouth statewide
shut for
six weeks when all this happened
was
taken with a call nine weeks
test and in
the middle of them is what
always
happens so I never finished them
they
never gave me the opportunity to
retake
so it fell down for that you
when I had
to go back to the eighth grade
at the
same school
I just didn't go to school much
and i
felt again until filing I was
just like
no sense to me staying you know
doing
this well have kero and
one-year-old now
the two-year-old is not mine but
take
care of as she is mine but
i love i love their i do believe
in
discipline nothing i do believe
they
need to know what's right what's
wrong
but what happened to me I
wouldn't won't
happen to them I wouldn't want
them to
do with that tray Clayton's
family filed
a lawsuit against the school
district
but they lost the family
eventually
dropped the case the current
school
superintendent in that district
says
corporal punishment is still use
their
but that it's quote used very
judiciously now
jeffrey Brown has a closer look
at all
of this with sarah sparks of the
education week team series barks
welcome
to I think a lot of people would
be
surprised at the continuing
prevalence
of this and were you and your
colleagues
we were a little surprised at
how many
states are still using corporal
punishment we found 21 states
and more
than 4,000 schools were using
physical
discipline all different age
levels
grade levels
absolutely we found from
kindergarten
all the way up through high
school there
were at least some students at
every
level also surprising and
notable in
your stories where how much
policies can
and do vary state to state and
even
within states right in some
districts it
was even school-by-school
differences
there is no official training
not much
guidance and not a whole lot of
accountability on how corporal
punishment gets meted out what
about law
we have 29 states who have
outlawed
corporal punishment 21 allow it
to some
degree or another and from state
to
state the policies and practices
differ
tremendously so define terms
here what
do we mean by corporal
punishment we use
the federal government's
definition
which is generally paddling
spanking any
physical discipline that is done
to a
child did you find other kinds
of
punishment we did the data set
that we
used doesn't differentiate by
what
implement gets used we found
everything
from handling with a 20 inch
wooden
paddle to some cases of chemical
spray
or even a Taser and we should
say the
data comes from the federal
government
right civil rights right this is
the
most recent civil rights data
from the
Education Department it's for
the
2013-14 school year
you also found the data a
disproportionate cases involved
african-american children and
lower
income children right I was very
surprised that black students
were twice
as likely as white students to
experience corporal punishment
if you're
in a state that uses corporal
punishment
and your low-income you were
also
significantly more likely to be
in a
school that uses it so in the
case of a
student like Trey Clayton we so
we saw
in the video
do you see that as a special
case or as
a typical it's typical of the
risks of
using corporal punishment in
schools
Trey Clayton said that his
corporal
punishment was a little more
severe than
he was used to but trade been
paddled
many times in school before and
we just
don't know what made him pass
out in his
case that incident the arguments
that
you often heard in favor of this
are
that it's an alternative to
suspension
for example right we heard from
from
people who were very much
against
corporal punishment all the way
to
people who are defending
corporal
punishment that this is
something that
can be used to get a kid
discipline
quickly and bring them back to
school
and it's used for everything
from
talking back in class to
fighting in the
halls but the research shows
that in the
long term it can have the exact
opposite
effect that educators think it
will and
hope it will have I mean we have
studies
that find higher aggression
right
it's higher defiance of adults
there
isn't a recent neurological
study that
found students who had
experienced
corporal punishment several
times over
time had lower brain matter in
the part
of the brain associated with
self-control
so there are some negative side
effects
to this and and are our people
in places
where they're doing this aware
of that
or what was their reaction when
you
pointed out the research for the
most
part they weren't aware but also
had a
sense of this is part of our
community
this is something that we as
educators
grew up with and the kids that
we've
paddled over the years have
grown up to
be good people so I think
there's a lot
of community support in some of
the
areas that still heavily
practice
corporal punishment let me as
you
finally what what rights if any
do
parents have if they want to
keep their
children from being subjected to
corporal punishment in some
states
parents are allowed to opt their
child
out of corporal punishment but
that
opt-out doesn't carry the force
of law
and from what we've seen in the
lawsuits
that have been brought over the
years
you don't stand a very good
chance in
court if you are a parent or
student who
feels you were inappropriately
corporal
punished
alright Sarah sparks of
education we
thank you very much thank you
yeah
for a decade the anti-secrecy
website
WikiLeaks has published online
millions
of original documents and other
material
leaks that have exposed the
inner
workings of the National
Security Agency
the US military and State
Department the
Saudi government and most
recently the
Democratic National Committee
but a new
report by The Associated Press
says that
many private individuals are
caught up
in the disclosures william
branham has
more the AP went through a
sampling of
the tens of thousands of
documents
wikileaks released in the last
year and
found many personal details
about
private citizens social security
numbers
medical files sensitive family
and
financial information and what
the AP
calls particularly egregious
wikileaks
published the names of two
teenage rape
victims as well as the name of a
Saudi
citizen had been arrested for
being gay
that revelation could endanger
the man's
life because in Saudi Arabia
being gay
is punishable by death
joining me now from Paris is
Raphael
Satter one of the AP reporters
who wrote
this story
Rafael thanks for being here I
wonder if
you could tell us what made you
first
off want to do this deep dive
into
WikiLeaks in the first place I i
covered
the Saudi files release back in
2015 and
there was an enormous amount of
newsworthy information in there
on but
as we were going through the
files with
my colleague Maggie who co-wrote
today's
story we noticed that there was
a lot of
irrelevant information in there
too
including a few medical files
now at the
time we sort of shrugged it off
we
thought well maybe there are a
couple of
straight files in there but we
flagged
it for for further research and
finally
this year we've gone back and
done some
digging
we mentioned that there was the
the
mention of the Saudi man had
been
arrested for homosexuality what
what
sorts of other things did you
find this
in these documents we found all
kinds of
things if it's personal or
sensitive or
family-related we found it so we
found
details of custody battles we
found a
parent's writing to authorities
about
missing children we found
details of
elopements of divorces of
partners who
had sexually transmitted
diseases partners who had AIDS
people
who were in debt in distress in
all
kinds of financial difficulties
and of
course some of the cases that
you
mentioned earlier that is to say
people
who were raped including
children who
were raped do you have any sense
of why
these documents were released i
mean
this seems to go at odds with
with
WikiLeaks is stands as a
longtime
advocate of privacy for
individuals
why are these types of documents
and
this kind of information
contained in
there it's difficult to know for
sure i
don't speak for Julian Assange
the head
of WikiLeaks and I can't say
exactly
what goes into these releases
Assange
has indeed said that private
information
would be protected in fact he
said
explicitly that his site would
take care
with medical data for whatever
reason
that doesn't appear to have
happened
here and even though I've been
trying to
get in touch with Assange for
the past
couple of weeks he hasn't spoken
to us
or offered us any kind of an
explanation
for why this happened I i know
that in
the past WikiLeaks has worked
with
journalists who will then go
through
some of this information before
it's
released and and redact
information to
try to protect people's data do
you
reasons why that didn't happen
in this
case that kind of thing has not
happened
for some time at least not at
any great
scale that indeed happened in
$MONTH
2010 with the release of bradley
manning's US diplomatic
documents that
WikiLeaks would work very
closely with
journalists from the New York
Times and
The Guardian and other
publications but
we leak stance on this kind of
thing is
hardened and they now argue that
any
redactions any reductions at all
kind of
feed the propaganda that
information can
be dangerous and and they're
very much
against that or they say that
they're
very much against that so lately
although i believe there have
been some
reductions left and right
overwhelmingly
the material comes out raw that
is to
say unfiltered we reached out to
WikiLeaks for comment and they
got back
to us and and basically argued
that none
of this is new this information
has been
out there for a while and that
you and
the AP have some kind of animus
against
WikiLeaks and that's why you're
trying
to make a big story out of this
what
what's your response to that
well I've
I've worked with WikiLeaks on
several stories including
stories about
surveillance in Syria and in
fact my
colleague Maggie and I covered
the Saudi
cables very aggressively last
year
that's one of the reasons we
first came
across these documents and no
one else
did I think that wikileaks has
produced
an enormous amount of newsworthy
material on but I reject the
idea that
we somehow did this because we
had an
agenda in fact I've been
thinking about
this story for a better part of
the year
and the truth is that the fact
that I'm
here right now speaking with you
and and
speaking with others of the past
few
hours is a testament to the fact
that
the stories in fact quite new
and and I
think very disturbing
let's say that I'm someone who's
information it is contained in
these in
this this dump of information is
there
any route for me to appeal to
WikiLeaks
to get my private information
taken off
their website that's a great
question on
and that's a question that we
got a lot
from the people that we got in
touch
with people talk to us in a
panic and
those who would talk to us and
they said
what can I do what are my next
steps
who do I right to who do i call
to get
my information taken off the
site
we're talking about deeply
private data
like whether or not a bride was
emerged
a virgin when she got married
and on and
the truth is I don't know i i've
asked
WikiLeaks i've i've asked I've
tried to
get that message to Julian
Assange and
we have no response as far as
I'm aware
there there is none
all right Raphael Satter from
The
Associated Press thank you very
much
thanks for having me
yeah
reducing the amount of carbon
dioxide in
the atmosphere is a key to
slowing
climate change scientists based
in
Iceland have made a major
breakthrough
by transforming carbon dioxide
gas or
co2 into rock and the head of
the
research group says it is
possible that
forty percent of the world's
carbon
dioxide emissions could be dealt
with by
adopting their techniques
special
correspondent Malcolm Brabant
has been
to Iceland to examine this
promising
discovery and he reports now
it's part
of our breakthrough series
I'm standing about 1,000 feet of
volcano
that last erupted about 2,000
years ago
the temperature underground here
is
about 620 degrees Fahrenheit
according
to geologists this volcano could
blow at
any time without could be
anytime within
the next 1,000 years the process
of
turning carbon dioxide into rock
is
happening about 6,000 feet below
my feet
silently but up here you can
really
sense the visceral power of
Mother
Nature
any sensation I can compare it
to is
being rather close to the launch
of the
space shuttle
this is how to say the double
power
plant the thermal energy is
transported
towards reykjavik where we heat
our
houses and takes hours and so
forth so
as a by-product of the oncoming
energy
production TFM gases like co2
are
committed to the atmosphere but
we have
been working to work with using
these
emissions capturing them and
three
injecting them into the ground
and
turning them into rock the
techniques
pioneered here said to be safer
than the
alternative of storing co2 as a
gas
underground with its expense and
potential for leaks under the
right
conditions nature takes hundreds
of
years to transform co2 into
stone
what the scientists have done is
to
accelerate the process
exponentially
this represents methods that can
be used
for fighting over warming and
climate
change and under that respect
it's a
powerful box so this is calcium
carbonate and this is what the
co2
inject it into the parcel turns
into
after the chemical reactions
have
occurred this one is not
representative
of what we would see if we were
to the
liqueur or the whole into into
the
bedrock where we are injecting
the co2
rather which is something like
this
where we have the the calcium
carbonate
in smaller particles carbon
dioxide is
an invisible gas but it's
ever-present
in geothermal areas like this
one where
there are hot springs and mud
pools
Iceland's volcanic rock makes it
the
perfect test bed for card fix
geologist
burger six-person drove up the
volcano
to point out the key ingredient
for this
chemical reactor
shin-bi sold here we are
standing in a
plastic lava field these rocks
here are
essentially the same as we are
injecting
our co2 into approximately 5,000
feet
below the sea level the base of
contains
all the necessary elements we
need to
combine with the co2 the for
minerals in
the subsurface professors
ciggies Lawson
is the head of the scientific
team
running this experiment among
the
participating institutions
columbia
university in new york as he
explains
the key to ensuring there are no
gasps
leakages is to dissolve the co2
in water
before injecting it into the
bedrock we
simulate the injection by having
here
pure water pure water goes in
here and
then we get the co2 that we put
in the
stream is something similar to
what we
have at the carpets site where
we have
co2 charged water that enter the
path of
the Crocs attempt what we don't
so far
it's a small project but it's
beautiful
because we have shown that you
can
actually mineralize co2 within
two years
and reactive rocks like puzzles
and that
this is savings to pay for
storing
carbon in the earth here
engineers are drilling to
extract
samples and the carbon dioxide
infused
rock this method requires huge
amounts
of water to dissolve the co2 so
it can
penetrate the porous and
permeable
battled 25 tons of water is
needed for
every time of carbon dioxide at
present
the card fix project is
neutralizing
10,000 tons of co2 a year
project
director editor a dog here we're
looking
at the corner of distilled into
the car
pics injection site and there we
can see
when we look at it that inside
the soft
we have a carpet of minerals
reformed containing the
injection co2
Healy gonna thorn Steinem is the
head of
research and development at
regular
energy how significant is what
you're
doing here
I think the car fix project is
one part
of the solution i think the
problem with
climate change what makes it so
difficult is that there's no
silver
bullet and so the carpet project
isn't a
silver bullet but it's certainly
certainly another weapon in our
armor so
how much of the world's carbon
could you
get rid of if you employ this
around the
world
I don't have the exact numbers
but we do
have significant potential in
the ocean
ridges in countries like India
that
could really use this technology
only a
few places on land like Northern
California and Southern Oregon
have the
right kind of geological
composition to
make this work but since basalt
is
plentiful on the ocean floor
varying co2
offshore just might work for
other
countries trying to contain the
greenhouse gas to the west of
Iceland
slightly closer to the North
Pole is the
yakap sound glacier in western
green
land which is a barometer of
climate
change during the 20th century
it alone
was responsible for four percent
of
rising ocean waters due to
warmer sea
temperatures the glacier is
shrinking
the rate of 10 miles a year and
sporting
a greater number of icebergs of
the size
that sank the titanic professor
Renee
fallsburg is a climate
specialist at
Denmark's technical university
it's a
sign of global warming that
Greenland is
melting rapidly the ice sheet is
melting
rapidly producing more icebergs
and
we know that it's warmer in
Greenland on
every student been for many
years so
this is what we see here that
the
icebergs get more frequently get
larger
also to some degree because it's
self
contained within the geothermal
power
plant the car perfect solution
can't be
used for capturing co2 from
planes cars
and ships like this one in a
Norwegian
field but professor gives
lasting
believes there should be
international
law requiring countries to start
using
this new technique the more
diffused
emission like from jets cars etc
is
going to be more complicated on
the
still forty percent of the
mission could
theoretically be captured and
stored in
rocks
there's no question we need a
legislation to force people to
do this
we do you want to do it by
emission
trading scheme do you want to do
it by
carbon taxes or if you wanted to
it
strictly directly by legislation
if you
do this then you capture the co2
it has
to be done because it is
expensive and
that is the oculus heat of all
of the
carbon capture stories it is
expensive
but even here in Iceland it's
not being
used to its full extent
75-percent of
the co2 is emitted at the moment
of the
co2 v take after the surface
approximate
identified percent are injected
directly
to form the carbonates minutes
why are you only interacting
25-percent
of the carbon dioxide to produce
into
the ground why aren't you going
full out
and putting in 100 percent co2
emissions
from geothermal energy are not
very
large and so we but we saw an
opportunity here to test the
very
interesting technology which we
did and
we've improved it works faster
than we
thought it would
now as for future development we
haven't
decided on that so we might
expand at a
later point but we just haven't
made
that if you try to save the
planet why
did you put in one hundred
percent well
when we were testing the
technology we
didn't know if it would work and
so we
only started injecting two years
ago
we're still proving that that
that we
can keep it all down there
everything
turns to minerals as the future
progresses we we might do more
we
haven't decided
the scientists aren't resting on
their
laurels they're trying to
determine
whether they can speed up the
process
still further the PBS Newshour
i'm not
in Brabant in Iceland
yeah
finally for one of our News our
essays
and students across the country
prepared
to return to school
Peggy Orenstein the author of
the recent
book girls and sex shares ideas
on how
young men and women should
rethink
intimacy in their relationships
for
several years now we've been
engaged in
a national debate about sexual
assault
on campus
no question it's crucial that
young
people understand the ground
rules for
consent but that's where the
conversation is ending and when
it does
the media and the internet that
new
digital street corner will
educate our
kids for us if we truly want
young
people to engage safely
ethically and
yes pleasurably it's time to
have frank
honest discussions about what
happens
after yes one thing that's clear
is that
we have to broaden our
definition of sex
beyond intercourse because
despite the
hype
these are not having intercourse
at a
younger age but they are
engaging in
other behavior and by ignoring
that by
allowing kids to label other
acts as not
sex
they aren't subject to the same
rules
that opens the door to both
risky
behavior and disrespect
that's particularly true of oral
sex
which teenagers consider less
intimate
than intercourse at least
$PERCENT of
boys are on the receiving end
the young
women I met had a lot of reasons
for
participating it made them feel
desired
it boosted social status
it could also get them out of an
uncomfortable situation i heard
so many
stories of one-sided encounters
that i
began asking what if every time
you were
with a boy expected you to get
him a
glass of water from the kitchen
but he
never got you a glass of water
the girls would laugh and say I
never
thought about it that way
sex is political as well as
personal
just like the question of who
does the
dishes in your home or who
vacuums the
rug it raises similar issues of
personal
power mental health and economic
disparity Alvin Akio a
Pennsylvania
educator has suggested that one
way to
level the playing field is to
get rid of
it and
early replacing that infamous
baseball
metaphor with something else
Pizza think about it you decide
with
your companion whether you feel
like a
pie if you do you negotiate the
toppings
maybe you like mushrooms and I
like
pepperoni so we go halfsies
but if I keep insisting on
pepperoni and
you keep kosher you'll stop
going out to
pizza with me it's all about a
shared
encounter in which everyone is
equally
invested in their fellow diners
pleasure
it works regardless of sexual
orientation discussing
contraception
disease protection and consent
with our
teenagers is important but it's
not
enough we need to call out the
forces
that urge boys to see girls
limits as a
challenge to overcome that tell
girls
male pleasure is more important
than
their own boys need to see
models of
masculinity that are not
grounded and
aggression and conquest girls
need to be
taught to articulate their needs
desires
and limits and expect those to
be
respected both sexes need to
learn how
to balance responsibility with
joy to
transform from baseball players
to pizza
eaters you can find our entire
collection of essays online at
pbs.org /
newshour / essays last week
viewers met
Sam poke a hedge fund trader
turn social
entrepreneur who turned his
passion to
poverty and nutrition on are
making
sense page online economics
correspondent Paul Solman
continue their
conversation about wealth
addiction and
problems on Wall Street all that
and
more is on our website pbs.org /
newshour and before we go a sad
note on
Friday jianyang spoke with
photographer
Sebastian rich on assignment for
unicef
in south sudan he's there to
cover the
plight of children suffering
from severe
acute malnutrition amid the
ongoing
fighting the first child rich
photograph
when he arrived there two weeks
ago was
this baby names all cradled by
his
mother he was terribly
malnourished this
morning rich return to the
clinic in
Juba the capital to check on the
boy and
was told that
he was told that joel had died
on
Thursday Sebastian rich sent us
a brief
eulogy of this one year old who
he wrote
is now just one more precious
little
bundle buried beneath a sad and
cruel
and you can find more on our
website
pbs.org / news hour and that is
the
NewsHour for tonight I'm Judy
Woodruff
join us online and again right
here
tomorrow evening for all of us
at the
PBS Newshour thank you and
goodnight
like you think reliable balance
real
election 2016 on PBS